Bash Script:

iqtree2 -s muscleplantNMTshort.fasta -B 1000  


R Script:

tree <- read.tree(file="/Users/chenjunyan/downloads/muscleplantNMTshort.fasta.contree")
plot(tree, show.node.label=TRUE)
title("plantnmt distance tree(ML)")


Software: IQ Tree

Description: IQ-TREE is a maximum-likelihood (ML) phylogenetic inference program that combines fast hill-climbing tree searches (via NNI 
rearrangements) with a stochastic “perturbation” step to escape local optima. It starts by generating multiple initial trees (e.g., 
from maximum parsimony) and refines them using both deterministic (hill-climbing) and random (stochastic NNI) steps, ultimately reporting 
the best-scoring ML tree found.

Strength: Efficient Search: Uses a combination of deterministic and stochastic strategies (hill-climbing + stochastic NNI) to explore 
tree-space effectively. High Likelihoods: Often finds better or at least comparable likelihoods than other ML programs (e.g.,
RAxML, PhyML) within similar or modestly higher run times.  Flexible Stopping Rule: Includes built-in stopping criteria that can save 
computation time while still achieving high-likelihood trees. Performance Optimizations: Implements a “phylogenetic likelihood library”
to speed up likelihood calculations. 

Weakness: NNI-Focused: Relies on nearest-neighbor interchanges (NNI); in some cases, SPR- or TBR-based methods might explore certain topological
neighborhoods more thoroughly (though stochastic NNI helps mitigate this). Heuristic Nature: Like all heuristic methods, there is no strict 
guarantee of reaching the global optimum. Potential Longer Runs: The default stopping rule may lead to longer runs on certain alignments if the
tree space is especially large or complex.

Assumption: Model Adequacy: Assumes the substitution model (e.g., GTR+Γ for nucleotides, WAG+Γ for proteins) is reasonably suitable for the data. 
Accurate Alignment: Requires a quality multiple sequence alignment of homologous sequences (errors or biases in the alignment can impact the result).
Sufficient Variation: Phylogenetic signal must be present in the data for ML inference to converge on meaningful trees. 

User Choices: Substitution Model: Users can choose from various site-substitution models (GTR, WAG, etc.) and rate heterogeneity options (Γ, +I, etc.)





